engine: add release notes for v25.0.0 (#18253)
docker/docs: content/engine/release-notes/25.0.md

## 25.0.0

{{< release-date date="2023-09-28" >}}

For a full list of pull requests and changes in this release, refer to the relevant GitHub milestones:

- [docker/cli, 25.0.0 milestone](https://github.com/docker/cli/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A25.0.0)
- [moby/moby, 25.0.0 milestone](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A25.0.0)

### New

- Add OpenTelemetry tracing. [moby/moby#45652](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45652), [moby/moby#45579](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45579)
- Add support for CDI devices under Linux. [moby/moby#45134](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45134), [docker/cli#4510](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4510), [moby/moby#46004](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46004)
- Add an additional interval to be used by healthchecks during the container start period. [moby/moby#40894](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/40894), [docker/cli#4405](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4405), [moby/moby#45965](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45965)
- Add a `--log-format` flag to `dockerd` to control the logging format: text (default) or JSON. [moby/moby#45737](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45737)

> - Add support for recursive read-only mounts. [moby/moby#45278](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45278), [moby/moby#46037](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46037)

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46577

> ### Bug fixes and enhancements

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/47051

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46863

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/47044

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46857

- containerd image store: Add support for referencing images via the truncated ID with `sha256:` prefix. [moby/moby#46435](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46435)
- containerd image store: Fix `docker images` showing intermediate layers by default. [moby/moby#46423](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46423)
- containerd image store: Fix checking if the specified platform exists when getting an image. [moby/moby#46495](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46495)
- containerd image store: Fix errors when multiple `ADD` or `ADD` instructions were used with the classic builder. [moby/moby#46383](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46383)
- containerd image store: Fix stack overflow errors when importing an image. [moby/moby#46418](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46418)
- containerd image store: Improve `docker pull` progress output. [moby/moby#46412](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46412)
- containerd image store: Print the tag, digest, and size after pushing an image. [moby/moby#46384](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46384)
- containerd image store: Remove panic from `UpdateConfig`. [moby/moby#46433](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46433)

> - containerd image store: Return an error when an image tag resembles a digest. [moby/moby#46492](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46492)

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46719

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46375

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46618

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46779

### Packaging updates

- Upgrade API to v1.44. [moby/moby#45468](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45468)
- Upgrade Compose to `2.24.1`. [docker/docker-ce-packaging#980](https://github.com/docker/docker-ce-packaging/pull/980)

> - Upgrade containerd to v1.7.6. [moby/moby#46486](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46486)

Reviewer 2: This is for the static packages only; and we updated to v1.7.12; https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/47070

Reviewer 2: Looks like you missed this one, or used an older update; (v1.7.7); should be v1.7.12

Author: Sorry yes, fixed

> - Upgrade go to v1.20.8. [docker/cli#4557](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4557), [moby/moby#46453](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46453)

Reviewer 2: We updated to go v1.21.6; https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/47053

> - Upgrade runc to v1.1.9. [moby/moby#46192](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46192)

Reviewer 2: This was updated to v1.1.11; https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/47007

> - Upgrade swarmkit to v2.0.0. [docker/cli#4408](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4408), [moby/moby#46184](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46184)

Reviewer 2: We can probably remove this one; we're already on "v2", but swarmkit doesn't tag releases, so it's only interesting from a "module" perspective

### Removed

- API: Remove VirtualSize field for the `GET /images/json` and `GET /images/{id}/json` endpoints. [moby/moby#45469](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45469)
- Remove deprecated `devicemapper` storage driver. [moby/moby#43637](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/43637)
- Remove deprecated orchestrator options. [docker/cli#4366](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4366)
- Remove support for Debian Upstart init system. [moby/moby#45548](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45548), [moby/moby#45551](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45551)
- Remove the `--oom-score-adjust` daemon option. [moby/moby#45484](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45484)
- Remove warning for deprecated `~/.dockercfg` file. [docker/cli#4281](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4281)

> ### Deprecated

Reviewer: https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46939

> - Deprecate `IsAutomated` field and `is-automated` filter for `docker search`. [Deprecation notice](../deprecated.md#isautomated-field-and-is-automated-filter-on-docker-search)

Reviewer 2: We also must include the API deprecation; https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4796

There may be a few more; although (some) of those may be "Go" related, not directly user-facing; https://github.com/docker/cli/pulls?q=is%3Apr+milestone%3A25.0.0+label%3Aimpact%2Fdeprecation+is%3Aclosed

Or look at the `deprecated.md` which may contain more for v25 (deprecated, or removed in); https://github.com/docker/cli/blob/master/docs/deprecated.md

And for the API; https://github.com/moby/moby/blob/master/docs/api/version-history.md#v144-api-changes

Author: Added the logentries one too

- [moby/moby, 25.0.0 milestone](https://github.com/moby/moby/issues?q=is%3Aclosed+milestone%3A25.0.0)

### New

- Add OpenTelemetry tracing. [moby/moby#45652](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45652), [moby/moby#45579](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45579)
- Add support for CDI devices under Linux. [moby/moby#45134](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45134), [docker/cli#4510](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4510), [moby/moby#46004](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46004)
- Add a `--health-start-interval` flag to `docker container` and `docker service` commands. [docker/cli#4405](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4405)
- Add a `--log-format` flag to `dockerd` to control the logging format: text (default) or JSON. [moby/moby#45737](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45737)
- Add support for recursive read-only mounts. [moby/moby#45278](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45278)

### Bug fixes and enhancements

- API: Fix error message for invalid policies at `ValidateRestartPolicy` [moby/moby#46352](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46352)
- API: Update `/info` endpoint to use singleflight. [moby/moby#45847](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45847)

> - Add additional interval for healthchecks during the start period. [moby/moby#40894](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/40894)

Author: have a single entry for health check intervals?

Reviewer 3: Yup, squash all related entries down IMO.

- Ensure network names are unique. [moby/moby#46251](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46251)
- Ensure that overlay2 layer metadata is correct. [moby/moby#46471](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46471)
- Fix `Downloading` progress message on image pull. [moby/moby#46515](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46515)
- Fix `NetworkConnect` and `ContainerCreate` with improved data validation, and return all validation errors at once. [moby/moby#46183](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46183)
- Fix `com.docker.network.host_ipv4` option when IPv6 and ip6tables are enabled. [moby/moby#46446](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46446)
- Fix daemon's `cleanupContainer` if containerd is stopped. [moby/moby#46213](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46213)
- Fix returning incorrect HTTP status codes for libnetwork errors. [moby/moby#46146](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46146)
- Fix various issues with images/json API filters and image list. [moby/moby#46034](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46034)

> - Set the MAC address of container's interface  when network mode is a short network ID  [moby/moby#46406](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46406)

Author: ```suggestion
- Set the MAC address of container's interface when network mode is a short network ID. [moby/moby#46406](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46406)
```

- Sort unconsumed build arguments before display in build output. [moby/moby#45917](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45917)
- The `docker image save` tarball output is now OCI compliant. [moby/moby#44598](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/44598)

> - The daemon no longer appends `ACCEPT` rules to the end of the `INPUT` iptables chain for encrypted overlay networks. Depending on the system's firewall configuration, a rule such as `iptables -A INPUT --dir in -p udp --dport 4789 -m policy --pol ipsec -j ACCEPT` may need to be programmed to permit incoming encrypted overlay network traffic. [moby/moby#45280](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45280)

Author: also a bit long

> - Unpacking layers containing files with extended attributes onto a filesystem which doesn't support extended attributes will now fail. Previously, the extended attributes would be discarded if they couldn't be set, which could potentially result in containers malfunctioning. Most storage drivers already require the backing filesystem to support extended attributes so this change should have no impact on most users. The `vfs` driver is a notable exception; the previous behaviour can be restored by configuring it with `--storage-opt vfs.xattrs=i_want_broken_containers`. Enabling this storage option is highly discouraged and bug reports submitted against a daemon with this option set will be summarily closed without comment. [moby/moby#45464](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45464)

Author: bit long, can we keep only the first sentence?

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Unpacking layers with extended attributes onto an incompatible filesystem will now fail instead of silently discarding extended attributes. [moby/moby#45464](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45464)
```

- Update daemon MTU option to BridgeConfig and display warning on Windows. [moby/moby#45887](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45887)

> - Validate IPAM config when creating a network. Automatically fix networks created prior to this release with an --ip-range bigger than --subnet. [moby/moby#45759](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45759)

Author: ```suggestion
- Validate IPAM config when creating a network. Automatically fix networks created prior to this release where `--ip-range` is larger than `--subnet`. [moby/moby#45759](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45759)
```

- containerd image store: Add image events for `push`, `pull`, and `save` [moby/moby#46405](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46405)
- containerd image store: Add support for pulling legacy schema1 images. [moby/moby#46513](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46513)
- containerd image store: Add support for pushing all tags. [moby/moby#46485](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46485)
- containerd image store: Add support for registry token. [moby/moby#46475](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46475)
- containerd image store: Add support for showing the number of containers that use an image. [moby/moby#46511](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46511)
- containerd image store: Fix `ONBUILD`, `MAINTAINER`, and healthchecks in Dockerfile instruction for support. [moby/moby#46313](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46313)
- containerd image store: Fix `Pulling from` progress message. [moby/moby#46494](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46494)

> - containerd image store: Fix `TestInspectByPrefix` [moby/moby#46435](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46435)

Reviewer: I don't think anyone cares about the `TestInspectByPrefix` integration test 😄 

We should have something like:
```suggestion
- containerd image store: Add support for referencing images via the truncated ID with `sha256:` prefix
```

- containerd image store: Print the tag, digest, and size after pushing an image. [moby/moby#46384](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46384)
- containerd image store: Remove panic from `UpdateConfig` [moby/moby#46433](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46433)
- containerd image store: Return an error when an image tag resembles a digest. [moby/moby#46492](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46492)

### Packaging updates

- Upgrade API to v1.44. [moby/moby#45468](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45468)
- Upgrade containerd to v1.7.6. [moby/moby#46486](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46486)
- Upgrade go to v1.20.8. [docker/cli#4557](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4557), [moby/moby#46453](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46453)
- Upgrade runc to v1.1.9. [moby/moby#46192](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46192)
- Upgrade swarmkit to v2.0.0. [docker/cli#4408](https://github.com/docker/cli/pull/4408), [moby/moby#46184](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46184)

### Removed

- API: Remove VirtualSize field for the `GET /images/json` and `GET /images/{id}/json` endpoints. [moby/moby#45469](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/45469)

> - Remove `ro-non-recursive`, `ro-force-recursive`, and `rro` from the legacy mount API. [moby/moby#46037](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46037)

Author: added and removed rro in the same release 🤔

Reviewer 3: We tweaked the original PR to not expose things via the old API; we should squash these into a single like ("add RRO").

- containerd image store: Fix errors when multiple `ADD` or `ADD` instructions were used with the classic builder. [moby/moby#46383](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46383)
- containerd image store: Fix stack overflow errors when importing an image. [moby/moby#46418](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46418)
- containerd image store: Improve `docker pull` progress output. [moby/moby#46412](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46412)
- containerd image store: Print the tag, digest, and size after pushing an image. [moby/moby#46384](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46384)
- containerd image store: Remove panic from `UpdateConfig`. [moby/moby#46433](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46433)
- containerd image store: Return an error when an image tag resembles a digest. [moby/moby#46492](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46492)
- containerd image store: `docker image ls` now shows the correct image creation time and date. [moby/moby#46719](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46719)
- containerd image store: Fix an issue handling user namespace settings. [moby/moby#46375](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46375)

> - containerd image store: Add support for pulling all tags (`docker pull -a`)

Reviewer 2: I think this is https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46618

```suggestion
- containerd image store: Add support for pulling all tags (`docker pull -a`) [moby/moby#46618](https://github.com/moby/moby/pull/46618)
```
